So good afternoon, everyone.
My name is Jing Jin,
and today I'm here to tell you about
how to create really cool effects
with CSS and the new features we
added to make your life even easier.
So everything I talk about today is
supported on the newest Safari on
desktop and Safari on iOS,
available to you in
the developer previews.
And you should already have a
basic knowledge of how HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript syntax works.
So all that being said,
if you're sitting here already,
you probably use
CSS sometime in your life.
And we all know that
since CSS is plain text,
it's very compact to
transfer over the network.
It's also scalable compared to images.
So for example,
if you had a gradient made with CSS,
it would be as crisp as it was at 100%,
no matter how much the user zoomed up.
And because CSS is all
interpreted by the browser,
it's very optimized.
And since it's plain text,
you can pretty much edit it anywhere.
Now, one of the benefits of CSS is
that if a property isn't
supported in an older browser,
it simply gets ignored.
So you can progressively enhance
your website while staying
compatible for older browsers.
And lastly,
if you try to replace all of your
images and plugins with CSS effects,
that means all of your site is
searchable from search engines.
So instead of just telling
you how great CSS is,
I'd like to invite my colleague,
Matt Delaney,
up to show you a demo we made
with all sorts of cool effects.
Hello, everyone.
My name is Matthew Delaney.
And like Jing, I'm also an engineer on
the Safari WebKit team.
And as you should have seen,
I'll be showing you a demo today.
And so this demo is full
of CSS tips and tricks,
absolutely chock-full.
And so basically,
as I go through this demo,
I'm going to point out all the
different CSS effects and animations
that we'll later show you how to make.
So when Jing and I were
going to make a demo,
we were talking about how a lot of online
shopping sites have a checkout process,
you know, and this checkout process is
usually quite tedious and,
well, usually rather boring.
So our demo is basically a take on-- our
creative take on the checkout process.
And we packed it full of different
CSS effects and animations.
So I'm going to show you that here now.
So as a little background,
imagine you're on a kitten shopping site,
for example, okay?
You've just chosen all of your kittens,
and you're ready to check out.
So as is typical,
you come up to your cart,
and you see that you have
all four of our kittens here.
We have super awesome
kitty type number one,
two, three, and four,
all appropriately priced, of course.
And so we've got the right cart,
and so we're ready to begin checkout.
Now, what's unusual about this is that
as I go to begin my checkout,
little do I know I'm actually inside
of my order's shipping package.
So this is pretty cool.
So what we did here was
we created a 3D box,
and we gave different faces different,
basically sections of
the checkout process.
So what you saw was a nice sweeping
transition from the inside of
the box down to this new face,
this first face of the box,
which is quite apparent from
the shipping label that it's our
shipping section to fill out.
So let's go and do that now.
Fill out my name.
And let's ship them to work.
I just need some more kittens at work.
And--whoops.
Here we go.
There's our shipping address.
So, now this page is-- this section
is quite interesting because
it's made entirely with CSS.
There are zero images
going on here at all.
From--basically from the check
mark that's animating as I get
a field in the form correct,
to this nice little yellow
glowing animation I get when
I get a field incorrect with
the wrong number of characters,
all the way to this little nice
red ribbon that looks like it's
wrapping itself from around the back
of the shipping label to the front.
So the shipping label is one
thing in particular that we'll
also show you how to make later,
along with the 3D box and the
transitions of rotating the box.
So let's continue on to the next section.
So yet again,
a nice sweeping transition that
shows us a new face of the box.
As we can see here,
it's obviously the postage section.
So as opposed to the usual
radio button kind of selections
or whatnot you see on sites,
we actually have three
stamps to choose from here.
So I have standard 2-day and overnight,
I see.
And watch this.
As I mouse over each one of the stamps,
I get this nice effect where the
stamp appears as if it's actually
peeling up off of the page.
So it's pretty nice.
Now, since obviously, you know,
I need these kittens ASAP,
I'm going to go for overnight.
So as I go to choose overnight,
watch this animation as the stamp
actually peels itself off the page
and puts itself onto the package.
So that was pretty cool.
Now onto our third section here.
We can see it's billing,
evidenced by the credit card here.
It's obviously a corporate purchase.
I'm going to use my Apple corporate card,
so please don't record this information.
Here we go.
Now this section is also of note because
there are yet again zero images here.
This is made entirely with CSS,
everything from the credit card to
all of the elements inside of the
credit card that we just edited.
So let's go on to the next section.
The fourth and final phase we see
here is our confirmation page,
which is kind of in the form of
this slick-looking receipt here.
So this is the usual kind of
part where we're checking we
have all the right information.
So let's see if we have kit number one,
two, three, and four.
That's my favorite with the blue eyes.
So I can see that it's shipped
to work and paid for by work.
That's perfect.
We've got overnight shipping.
That's what we wanted.
And the tax, that looks pretty good too.
So just weighing in at a
very simple $4 million,
we have all four of our kittens,
and we're ready to ship.
So here's another thing to take note to.
As I click ship it here,
as my order is processing,
I get this nice nifty little animation
that fits the motif of our site,
which is these paw prints
going around a circular image,
which is apparently of a cat
that's processing our order.
And so this is another thing that we'll
show you how to make in this talk,
these nice spinners here.
And if the cat would just hurry up.
We get our order is complete.
So it wasn't that much nicer than
the alternative checkout process.
So now I'm going to hand
you back over to Jing,
and she's going to show you how
to create some of these awesome
CSS effects and animations.
said I'm going to show you
how to do some of those today.
We'll first start with taking a
look at how to create some of the
graphical effects you saw there.
Then I'll show you how to animate with
just a few additional lines of CSS.
And lastly, I'll address what's probably
one of your top concerns.
How do I make use of all these great
effects without breaking older browsers?
So first, let's start with the effects.
Some of you out there may be
CSS gurus and already know that you
can actually manipulate your elements
in 3D space using 3D transforms.
That's how we created this box.
But there's also another way to create
a feel of 3D without actually using 3D,
and that's using 2D effects to
create some lighting illusions.
So for example,
here we have a banner that looks
like it's folded over the card.
And this is actually all done
with just some gradients.
So we use all these properties,
but gradients are great
because they're very versatile.
If you remember, back in 2008,
we actually pioneered
the CSS gradient syntax.
And now that it's being
adopted by W3C standards body,
we've updated our syntax to include
four new functions that make it
easier than ever to use gradients.
So let me show you how you can
use two simple linear gradients to
create that ribbon-looking thing.
As you can see here,
you can use gradient functions
anywhere you can use images.
So we use it as a background
image for our ribbon here.
We can give it a starting
and ending color,
tell the gradient which
position to start in,
and add in as many
color stops as we need.
And to position the color stops,
simply add a position after each
color stop separated by a space.
And with just that one additional line,
we already have this folded overlook.
So what about the right side?
We need kind of like a diagonal taper.
That's actually just another
gradient overlapped with this one.
So to create that,
just make the top gradient
transparent on the right side.
And below it,
we'll add a second one that's slightly
rotated and has the starting and ending
colors jutted up against each other,
creating a sharp edge.
And here's our final effect.
So like I said before,
because gradients are scalable,
this means that that sharp edge
will stay just this sharp no matter
how big your page gets zoomed up.
So that was a linear gradient.
And next, onto radial gradients.
This is actually my
favorite type of gradient,
because you can create
very realistic looking
three-dimensional lighting effects.
So for example,
the box we showed you earlier,
if all we had was a background image,
it would look like this.
So it's approximately the correct shape,
but it doesn't look realistic
because everything is the same color.
And in real life,
we have lights and shadows.
So with a few simple radial gradients,
you can turn a box that looks stiff
like this to a box that looks like this.
Let's start making that.
This time we'll use a radial
gradient on top of a cardboard image.
Just like a linear gradient,
specify the start and end colors,
and it will draw from the center
out to the furthest corners.
Adjust the colors up a little bit,
and we have the correct
shading for our box face.
Now for the flaps,
all we need is to move that
gradient from the center of the
element to the top of the element.
And if we wanted it to
be a different shape,
we can actually specify the horizontal
and vertical radii separately,
making a very flat ellipse.
And that's all you need,
two lines of gradients to create
realistic lighting for your box.
So we talked about linear gradients,
we talked about radial gradients,
and now that you know how to use those,
repeating gradients are extremely easy.
Just take an existing linear gradient,
add the word repeating in
front of the function name,
and it will repeat throughout
the rest of your element.
Similarly with a radial gradient,
add repeating,
and it repeats from inside out.
So again,
these four new functions or gradients,
as you can see,
were really simple to use.
And they're available in the
newest Safari 5.1 Developer Preview
and the iOS 5 Preview.
Now we just created-- the last thing we
did was creating shading for our box.
So let's actually create
the entire box now.
To do this, as I said earlier,
we'll use 3D transforms.
And if you haven't
used transforms before,
it's just a CSS property that takes
different functions and manipulates your
element on the page without changing
the layouts of the rest of the page.
So for example,
a translateY would move your element
down without affecting its neighbors.
And you can string as many
of these up as you want,
and they will get applied
one after another.
So onto the box.
Our box is an open-face box.
That means we need five faces.
So let's make five divs and put
them in a class called package.
And since we'll just want
to make a square box,
we'll make them 400 by 400 and
absolutely positioned so they're
overlapped on top of each other.
Now we need to move them in 3D space.
So the 3D space looks like this.
The y points down, x points to the right,
and z points out of the screen.
So to move a face forward,
we just need to apply a
positive translate z to it.
Now to make one of the side faces,
what we need to do is to rotate it.
And that rotation is around the y-axis,
so it's a rotate y.
And note here that when you apply
a transform function to an element,
it also gets applied
to the element's axis.
So here the X and Z axes get
rotated along with the element.
And after that, a simple translate z to
move it towards the right.
And we've got our second phase.
So apply the same principle to
the other three faces of the box,
and you have your box
constructed in 3D space.
And on your page, it will look like that.
Not really worth the effort, really.
So what is happening here?
This is actually because we need to
apply a property called perspective.
In real life, perspective is what makes
things look three-dimensional.
So if you look at the left
and right edges of the room,
you'll notice that they look like
they're converging to a point,
but you know that they're parallel.
And this distortion is what we need
on the web page for it to look 3D.
So a CSS perspective property is
a value that is related to how
far you are from your object.
So if you're really close to your
object and have a really small value,
then it looks really distorted.
But as you move further and further away,
the object becomes flatter and flatter.
So we probably want to apply a
perspective of about 800 to our box.
Now note that perspective applies to
the transforms of the elements children.
So since we were
transforming the box's face,
we need to apply the perspective
to the face's parents,
so the class package.
And applying the perspective,
we now have a front-facing
three-dimensional box.
So so far, I told you how to use the
new gradient syntax to create
some really cool effects.
And we walked through how to use
3D transforms to create a box.
But as you saw in the last slide,
the box wasn't all that exciting.
It was 3D, but if you had an opaque face,
you still would see just a square.
So let's add some animations to
actually make it move around.
One of the animations we saw was a
rotation when you switched between
different sections of the box.
So let's take a look at that again.
Now in terms of 3D transforms,
this is really just a
rotate around the y-axis.
So here's our box.
The easiest way to rotate our box is to
apply the transform to the package class.
But as I just said,
we need a perspective to its parent.
So let's add a package container
and move the perspective definition
from package to package container.
Now, if we had just this,
the transforms on the faces won't work.
So we need to tell package that we want
the faces to inherit the perspective.
And we do that by using the transform
style property of preserve3D.
So now that we have our setup,
let's do our animation.
Since our animation requires one
starting state and one ending state,
we can translate between the
two using a transition property.
So for a transition property,
you have your starting
state and ending state.
And you can apply this
in many different ways,
one of which is just simply changing
the class name in JavaScript.
So if I change the class name from
package to package right side,
then what you will see on screen is that
your package will snap to the right side.
So with just one more line,
we can add a transition
property that says,
I want any changes in the
transform property to happen
over a one second duration.
This means that when we change the class
back from package right side to package,
we'll get a smooth transition.
Know that when you define the transition,
it has no idea which position
it's transitioning from and which
position it's transitioning to.
So it really doesn't care where
your starting and ending state is.
That means it's really useful if you
want to use it for the same property,
but a lot of different values.
So for example,
when we're rotating inside a box,
using the exact same transition,
we'll just assign a different class,
and it will automatically
perform the correct animation.
So that's a transition applied using
JavaScript to change your classes.
You can also use a transition
to perform a hover effect
completely without JavaScript.
So for example, if you watch the bottom
left corner of the stamp,
when the user hovers over it,
it actually lifts up.
This is really just a regular
class with some properties in it,
and the hover pseudo class with
some changes in properties,
and an addition of a transition property.
So we just saw now that you can
use a transition to interpolate
smoothly between two states,
either by using
JavaScript to change classes,
or by just using some
pseudo class selectors.
But what if you wanted
something more complicated?
What if, for example,
you wanted the animation we
had when you selected a stamp?
So as you can see here,
the stamp actually flies up in front
of the box and then goes back down.
We can use a keyframe animation here.
And to do that,
first we need to determine what are
the separate states of our animation.
So for this animation,
there are three things going on.
The first thing is that the
stamp is moving smoothly from the
starting state to the ending state.
The second thing is that the stamp
is getting a 3D transform starting
at the beginning of the animation,
holding it there for a little while,
and then going back down to a flat stamp.
And the third thing is that it's
actually becoming bigger in the middle
of the animation and smaller at the end.
So let's watch that again in slow motion.
See how it peels up, stays there,
gets bigger, and then comes back down.
And on a timeline, it looks like this.
You're moving from wherever
the middle is to the top right.
Then you're doing, it's becoming flipped,
and then staying there for
a quarter of the animation.
And the last thing is that it's
getting bigger and smaller.
So as you can see on this timeline,
we have four different frames
we need to take care of.
And now let's get to the actual coding.
So define these frames
using the keyframe property.
Give it a name so we
can refer to it later,
and put those in.
Notice how I didn't put in the 0% frame.
And some of you who've used
keyframes before might think
that's actually a mistake.
But this is actually a
new feature of Safari.
Any frame or any property you
don't specify explicitly in a
keyframe animation gets interpolated
automatically by the browser.
So this means when you have a
really complex animation where
things are happening in different
orders and for different times,
you can save a lot of coding.
So for example, the movement we have
is a smooth movement.
So all we really need to do is to
define the final position and not
care about the other two keyframes.
All right,
so we'll just add in the transforms
for flipping the stamp up,
and then add in a scale for
making it bigger at 50%.
And then we need to apply it.
So here we're responding to a user click.
So let's just put it in JavaScript on
click handler and trigger the animation,
the keyframe animation,
using the animation property.
So doing this, we'll get an animation
that looks like this.
So the good news is we got
most of the animation correct.
The bad news is the
stamp didn't stay there.
And this is actually expected
behavior in CSS animations.
It means that your animation only affects
your element during the 0% to 100% state.
So that means when the
animation finishes,
the element will go back
to its pre-animation state.
There are some handy CSS properties we
can use to prevent this from happening.
And it's called an animation fill mode.
So let me take a simpler example
to show what a fill mode is.
Say we have a square
div that's transparent,
and we wanted to wait one second,
then perform a pulsing
animation over two seconds.
With no fill mode,
this means that the div will
stay transparent for a second,
then it will become orange, then white,
then orange,
and then at the very end it will
snap back to a transparent value.
If we want the square to actually become
orange during the one second delay,
we can apply a fill mode of backwards.
This means that our square will
become orange for a second,
then go to white and
orange over two seconds,
then become transparent again.
And if we're on the opposite,
if we want our element to stay
orange after the 100% frame,
like we want for the stamp,
then we need a forwards fill mode.
As you can see there,
it stayed at 100% frame.
Now let's apply this forward
fill mode to our stamp.
just simply added in
behind everything else.
And now we have a stamp animation that
correctly stays at its 100% frame.
So far, I showed you how to use
transitions to perform some simple
interpolation between states.
Then we use a keyframe animation
to perform a more complex movement.
Another great feature of
keyframe animations is that
they can repeat indefinitely.
So this is great for a progress
indicator when you're doing some heavy
number crunching in the background.
And since we all know that the web needs
more kid and child progress indicators,
I want to show you how
you can create this.
So there are two elements on screen here,
each one containing a poll.
They're just rotating around
the center of their container.
So the keyframe animation
definition for the first one is
just going from 0 to 360 degrees.
And since we want the second
one to be slightly offset,
it'll go from 5 degrees to 365 degrees.
So now we want to apply those two.
We want the outside paw
to start the walk first.
Then we want the inside one
to follow it after a delay.
So for the inner paw,
I added a 0.4 second delay.
And I told both of them that
you can rotate indefinitely.
Now there's a problem here.
Since animations
interpolate between frames,
this means we'll get a
very smooth animation.
We'll get cats on ice,
not actually walking.
So to get the walking,
one way that I've seen a lot of people
do is to define a lot of keyframes.
So for example, you could say,
at the 10% keyframe,
I want to be at 5 degrees.
And at the 10.001% keyframe,
I want to be at 10 degrees.
So you don't get the interpolation.
But there's an easier way.
Starting with the new Safari,
you can use a timing
function called steps.
This function takes a number.
And this is the number of frames you
want to display for your animation.
So I said I want my animation
to happen over five seconds,
and I want it to be divided
over 10 frames evenly.
This means that nothing
in between will be shown,
so that you get a discrete animation.
And we're done.
So I showed you how you can
animate with transitions,
and how you can animate
with keyframe animations.
And you may be wondering,
why is there even two
different properties for
pretty much just animating?
Well, that's because each one is
good for a different purpose.
So transitions are
really simple to define.
It only takes one line,
and it doesn't care about
your starting or ending state.
So as I showed you in the box,
with the exact same transition,
we can rotate to any side of the box.
Animations, on the other hand,
require explicit definition
of each of its frames,
so you can't be used to
rotate that box that way.
But the advantage of explicitly
defining frames is that you can
get multiple frames out of it,
and you can also tell the
frames to repeat or alternate.
So remembering those will help you
decide when to use a transition
and when to use an animation.
But if you're new to all of this,
and this is a little
too much to remember,
just use a transition as a rule of thumb,
because it's easier,
and it usually does most
of the things you want.
So next,
I'd like to get Matt back up here again,
because he's going to show you how
to combine transitions and animations
to make something really cool.
Hi again.
So now that Jing has showed us how
to create all that CSS awesomeness,
let's use it to build one last
great thing into our demo here.
So if you recall from...
The first demo,
as we got to the end page here,
we had our confirmation page.
And as we went to ship it, we got this.
We got a nice paw print
processing kind of thing going on.
And then when the order came back,
complete, we just got this rather
plain text that said,
your order's complete.
But how cool would it be if
instead we had an animation
that went something like this?
That was not a much cooler
ending to our checkout process.
So let's take a look
at how to build that.
So the first thing that's
important here is to note all the
different parts that are going on.
So I'm going to quickly
describe them to you,
and then I'm going to
show you the demo again.
The first thing to take note
of is that there's a truck,
and it drives about two seconds
from the left side of the screen
to the center of the screen,
pauses there for about a second,
and then you see it drive off to
the right in about two seconds.
A second part that's going
on is that the package,
you see it zoom away toward the truck,
and then it fades away into the truck.
And the third thing that's going on
is that you see very initially in
the first second of the animation,
the boxes flaps close into
themselves and close up altogether.
So let's take a look one more time.
[Transcript missing]
So we're basically,
we're coordinating a few different things
going on here in this animation overall.
So timing is really important here.
So we'll just think quickly
about the timing that we want for
things to kind of synchronize.
So the truck animation, like I said,
is basically an overall
five second animation.
We have two seconds in
which the truck comes in,
one second in which it idles there,
and two seconds in which
it goes off the page.
Now at the same time,
we have that box zooming out,
and we want it to be there
right when the truck gets there.
So that's basically two seconds
along into the animation.
Now over that third
second of the animation,
it's fading away.
In the very first
second of the animation,
we saw that it's folding up.
So we're going to keep that
all in mind and just watch
one more time in slow motion.
So you see it folding up
in the first second here,
zooms away, then it fades away.
And the truck drives off.
Cool, so let's go to the code
and let's build this.
So when our order is complete,
we have this callback
function that executes.
And previously from the first demo,
all it was doing was just
removing the spinner,
the little paw spinner there,
and then it was zooming in
that order complete text.
So since we want to
build our animation here,
let's put this aside for a second.
And let's add in exactly
those three parts here for
our animation that we want.
So step one here is the truck.
So let's dive right into this.
So the first thing we need to do is
obviously add a little bit of markup
to our HTML page for the truck.
So I'm going to go and do
that here in our HTML page.
[Transcript missing]
So now that we have that
initial state there,
all we need to do is add in
our keyframe at rule for the
back one of our animation.
So I'll do that right here.
So I said the timing is really important,
so we're just going to think about
for a second which keyframes we want
in order to create this animation.
So we said that it takes
two seconds to drive in,
so the first keyframe that we
want is where it's in the middle
of the page after it's driven.
So that'll be about 40% along the way.
Now, at the third second
along in the animation,
it should still be there
in the middle of the page,
because it's basically
idled over that one second.
And then the last two seconds,
it drives off the page,
so that's 100%. So all we need to do
to add in here for each one of these
Keyframes is, on the first one,
left at 50%, so it's roughly
in the middle of the page.
And yet again, for keyframe two,
we'll also have it at left 50%, so it's
still there in the middle of the page.
And lastly, for keyframe three,
we just need to be at left of
110%, so it actually gets pushed
off the right side of the page,
and yet again,
not visible to the user at the end.
So now that we have our keyframe
at rule for our animation,
for simplicity,
we're just going to create a class
on the truck called the drive class.
Which is just simply setting
the animation to choose the
@ rule that we just created,
having a duration of five seconds,
and using the timing
function of easeInOut.
So now this is as simple in our
JavaScript to get this to trigger as...
Just grabbing the truck element
from the page using getElementById,
and then adding that class name drive
so that we trigger the animation.
So let's take a look at that now.
Make sure I save.
So now since we haven't done
anything with the box just yet,
it's just going to sit there.
So I'm just going to very quickly open
up the Web Inspector and delete the
box from the page so it doesn't get
in the way of our truck animation.
There we go.
And...
Truck Drives.
Perfect.
So let's go back to step two.
Now, if you didn't catch everything
there for the truck animation,
it's OK, because it's completely
orthogonal to what we're going
to do for steps two and three.
So let's jump to step two here.
So now there's a difference between
what was going on with the truck and
what was going on here with the package.
And Jing went over this at the end.
The difference between
transitions and animations,
we really don't need an animation here,
because it's very simply that we
have two states of the package
that we're transitioning between.
There's a starting state that we see
with the packages in front of us.
And the ending state is where the
package is far away and faded out.
So basically, let's go and create that
ending state now in our CSS.
So we're going to create a class on the
package that we'll call Zoom and Fade.
And this just defines our
ending state of the transition.
And so we see here it just has simply
just a transform that puts it in the
right place very far in the page.
And it sets the opacity to zero
so that it's completely faded out.
So now, in order to get the right
transition that we want,
though, between that starting
state and the ending state,
we're just going to define here
also in the class our transitions.
So what we have here is we're
just basically setting the
transition property on both the
transform and opacity properties.
And if we keep the timing in mind again,
basically what we're trying to
create here is that in the very first
second of our overall animation,
we are waiting for the
box flaps to fold up.
So we're going to have a
delay on the transform,
be one second,
so that that happens after the flaps.
And then for the opacity,
we want it to fade just afterwards,
the next second,
so we'll make it two seconds delay.
And then for the duration of each,
it's just one second, as we said before.
So now, yet again,
triggering this in JavaScript is
just as simple as setting
that class on the package.
So yet again,
we get the element from the page,
and we have this class name,
zoom and fade.
And so with the right delays
and the right duration,
we get exactly what we want in
our overall five second animation.
So let's go take a look at that now.
Make sure we got it right.
Zooms away, fades away.
Perfect.
Now back to step three.
If you think about it,
step three is essentially
the same thing as step two.
It's just a starting and ending state
that we need to transition between,
but now for the package's flaps.
So the starting state
is when they're open,
and we have classes defined for that,
and the ending state is
when it's closed in the box.
So since it's really just
the same thing going on here,
I'm just going to skip over it
and call my little helper function
that closes the flaps for us.
And that's essentially just doing
the same thing we did in step two.
Now we have all of our three steps,
so we're going to go look at
what that looks like and make
sure that we got it all right.
But first, there was one last thing that
we have sitting over here.
We commented out this function,
and we want that to come in at
the end to let them know that it's
all done and the order's complete.
So right now, if we just called it,
we would get it right in the
beginning of our animation,
and that wouldn't look good.
So we want it to happen
after our animation is done.
So luckily, at our disposal,
we have a DOM event that fires
on the ending of animations.
So what we can do
is we can add an event listener to the
truck so that when its animation ends,
which is basically when that ends,
our overall animation is done,
we call the function
zoomInOrderCompleteText.
So that--so we're guaranteed
that that will happen right at
the very end of our animation.
So now let's go take a look
and make sure it all worked.
So with just a few lines of CSS,
we got a much cooler
animation to the end there.
So you might be thinking to yourself,
this is pretty cool and all,
and we can add these, you know,
sweet animations in the newer browsers,
but what about the older browsers?
What do we do when, you know,
perhaps we don't want it to blow up,
and we don't want to break our sites
and all that compatibility stuff?
So now Jing is going to show you a few
things that we have to rectify that.
So Jing, come back up.
So as Matt said,
I'm going to show you how you can use
some CSS media queries to find out
some properties of the device and the
browser you're being displayed on.
So first to detect the type of media,
you can do this in HTML, CSS,
or JavaScript.
So in HTML,
you can use the media attribute.
So the code on screen here gives you an
example of linking to the style sheet
that has animations when we're being
displayed on an actual computer screen,
and just having a static style for
when your web page is being printed.
With CSS, instead of the media attribute,
it's just the media at rule.
And this is really useful when
all you need to do is to change
one or two different properties.
In JavaScript, you can look for the style
media object on the window,
and then query for its type.
So that was detecting types of media.
You can also detect
different types of displays.
For example,
you may not want your web page to
look the same on a small handheld
device versus a giant screen.
So you can do something like,
if I am on the screen and
it's larger than 800 pixels,
then I want to be in columns
using the media attribute.
Or you can do the same thing
using the media at rule.
And with JavaScript,
you can call the match medium function
and give it the exact same query you
gave the HTML and CSS and perform
the appropriate JavaScript there.
So the third thing you can do with
CSS media queries is to detect whether
certain CSS properties are supported.
This is really useful for animations,
because they're usually being
applied via JavaScript anyways.
So you can call match-medium again
and give it the property you're
interested in in parentheses,
and only perform an animation
when it's supported,
and have, in the l statement,
have some fallback code
for older browsers.
All right,
so let's see what we learned today.
I showed you the newest syntax,
the simplified syntax for gradients,
and some examples of how
to use 3D transforms.
Then we animated the box we created
using the 3D transform using transitions,
and did some more complex stuff
using keyframe animations.
And just now,
I showed you how to use CSS media
queries to customize your code
for different types of devices.
So if you have more questions, as always,
feel free to contact
our Safari evangelist,
Vicky Murley.
And last year,
we actually had two different
CSS sessions that made use of a
lot of effects that you saw today.
So they're both available
on developer.apple.com,
and you can download them into iTunes.
Lastly, Safari Dev Center has a
lot of documentation of how
all of these things work.
And tomorrow we have three
more Safari sessions.
So if you're an extensions developer,
everything I told you today can
be used in a Safari extension.
And of course,
you probably want your dynamic
web app to work well offline.
And lastly,
some of my colleagues will talk
about how do you design your website
so that it works correctly with the
newest gestures online and in iOS.
So thank you very much.
Enjoy the rest of your conference.